---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Unit 5 Blog
categories: [Week 20]
title: Unit 5 Blog
---

# 5.1 Notes
Video 1
Learning Objective: Explain how an effect of a computing innovation can be both beneficial and harmful

Essential Knowledge:

-people create computing innovations

-the way people complete tasks often change to incorporate new computing innovations

-not every effect of a computing innovation is anticipated in advance

-a single effect can be veiwed as both beneficial and harmful by differnent people even by the same person

-advances in computing have generated and increased creativity in other fields, such as medicine, engineering, communications, and the arts

Video 2
Learning Objective: Explain how a computing innovation can have an impact beyond its intended purpose

Essential Knowledge:

-responsible programmers try to consider the unintended ways their computing innovations can be used and the potential beneficial and harmful effects of these new uses

-it is not possible for a programmer to considr all the ways a computing innnovationcan be used

-rapid sharing of a program or running a program with a large number of users can result in significant impacts beyond the intended purpose or control the programmer

# 5.2 Notes
Learnign Objective: Describe issues that contribute to the digital divide

Essential Knowledge:

-internet access varies between socioeconomic, geographic, and demogrpahic characteristics, as well as between countries

-the digital divide refers to differing access to computing devices and the internet, based in socioeconomic geographic or demographic characteristics

-the digital divide can affect both groups and individuals

-the digital divide raises issues of equity, access, and influence, both globally and locally

-the digital divide is affected by the actions of individuals, organizations, and governments

# 5.3 Notes
- Algorithms from TikTok can be meant to keep the user on the app for as long as possible.

- I think the HP bias was unintentional. The owner of the computer may have thought of it as intentional. However, there were probably biases within the testing algorithm because they may not have sampled as many black or dark-skinned people. This is harmful not only for the user, but also for the company, since they will be marked racist. It is important to be able to have a diversity on user testing because it will be necessary for companies to be accommodating of a variety of users, which will benefit both the consumer and the company.

- Different programs have different purposes, so there are different algorithms to do different things. It can be harmful for apps to have a certain audience because they want to focus on having as much attention as possible, so they can end up being addictive.

- Virtual assistants may have inherent bias because we usually view that women’s voices are more comforting to a person.

# 5.4 Notes
- During the first trimester my group used a marvel api to get data about all marvel characters in the marvel database. We used this to make a marvel search bar that the user could use to learn about whatever marvel character they wanted.

- The biggest discovery I have found on Github are many different features that help with our learning in this class. Such as the ability to make issues to track our progress and the insights feature to see how much work we have been doing.

- A possible crowd source idea is to make some sort of coding challenge and students could submit there response to the challenges. At the end the responses of all the students could be shared for others to look at to further there learning

- Our project could be better with crowds sourcing as we can ask for feedback from many Del Norte students n how we could improve our project. They could also help us come up with ideas

- Data that we could capture at N@tM is getting feedback from the guests and noting down any recommendations. We can use this data to make the following N@tM more interesting for the guests

# 5.5 Notes
- Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal: Waives copyright interest

- Allows to be accessed on public domain

- Open Source MIT License: The usage of code is not restricted

- Allows closed source projects to be distributed

- Authors will be able to get credit. However, this could just mean a simple name mention

- Allows for GitHub repository to be private

- GPL License: Almost any freedom with project, except distributing closed source versions

- The GitHub repository must be public

- Licenses are guidelines for distribution and usage of code

- They help to give the author credit and help to keep things confidential

- Are important for businesses and people to be able to get their money

- They can be bad when ignored

- Copyright ensures that people can own the work they produce

- Can be good when people try to claim they own someone else’s work

- Can be bad when the owner constantly restricts usage of their work, even if it is not the main focus(ex. taking profit from creator using their work as background music)

- Sites which “pirate” copyrighted things can be good and bad

- Technically illegal under licensing rules, but give greater access to items which can educate people

- Does not give creators credit

- Can be on sketchy sites which perpetrate scams

- Personal Fastpages: GPL License

- People can see the project freely

- Frontend/Backend of CPT Project: Open Source MIT License

- People can use our project as an inspiration for projects they take upon

- We would like to be cited for our work

- Allows more freedom with what people want to do with our things

# 5.6 Notes
- A good password should be long, contain a mix of letters, numbers, and special characters. A bad password is one that is easily guessable. Another step that can be used to assist in authentication is two-factor authentication

- I understand the importance of collecting and using this information for various purposes. But I am aware of the potential risks associated with PII, such as identity theft and privacy violations.

- I have seen PII on my computer science project in the from I am making for my quiz where the user inputs the score they received on the quiz. It will also be seen on our log in/sign up page if we end up making one since the user will be inputting their email most likely.

- Some phishing techniques are ads that promote the user to click a link ot a website that wants you to input information that the website will steal and try to scam you. Fortunately I have not fallen for one of these scams but I have been close to when I was younger and saw an ad that proposed a free amazon gift card.

- Symmetric encryption and asymmetric encryption are two different types of encryption algorithms. Symmetric encryption uses the same key to both encrypt and decrypt data, making it faster and more efficient. Asymmetric encryption, also known as public key cryptography, uses two different keys for encryption and decryption, making it more secure but slower.


# Three Beneficial Effects of my Project
-My project can increase the users sports knowledge

-Users can use the stats predictor feature to make money through sports betting

-My project is a fun challenge for the user that they can use when they are bored

Potential harmful effect of my Project
-The user could use my project to start sports gambling which could lead to an gambling addiction and the user losing lots of money

What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?
-Pros: Websites that contain harmful or inappropriate information cannot be accessed on school campus, which overall, keeps the campus more safe

-Cons: Certain websites are blocked that can potentially be useful to learning. Additionally, the wifi is much slower which leads students to use hot spots and vpns to get around the internet blockers.

# What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide? For yourself or for others.
Concerns I have on the digital divide is that people will become too uncomfortable with human interaction. Bullying is much easier online as people say harmful things online that they would not say in person. Additionally, people will stay inside on their devices all day long not getting any exercise and living an unhealthy life.

# Reflection
I thought I did better this time when it came to scoring because I had understood what was right and what was wrong more than I did the first time. This allowed me to correctly give and take points from the students. One that really stood out to me was submission 2 because they had all of the requirements needed to receive full credit on every part, so I will try and use that as a guideline for myself. 